Supported by By James Wagner The Mets and Matt Harvey have finally — fully — parted ways. On the clock to trade him before he might become a free agent, the Mets salvaged something out of Harvey, trading him on Tuesday to the team they happen to be facing this week, the Cincinnati Reds. Harvey, one of the best pitchers in baseball less than three years ago, will now be a reclamation project on the worst team in baseball. In exchange for Harvey, the Mets received cash and the oft-injured catcher Devin Mesoraco, who was in the Reds’ starting lineup for Tuesday night’s game until the trade was announced just under an hour before first pitch. Mesoraco, 29, then switched clubhouses at Great American Ball Park before his former team beat the Mets, 7-2. Harvey, also 29, will not face his former team this week, as he will join the Reds for their next series in Los Angeles against the Dodgers beginning Thursday. His performance declined significantly after some injuries, and he had struggled both as a starter and as a reliever this season. Harvey’s tenure with the Mets came to an end after they designated him for assignment Saturday following his refusal to take a minor league assignment, which was within his rights. The Mets had seven days to trade or release him if he cleared waivers. Tuesday’s deal is essentially a swap of players to fill needs. The Reds entered Tuesday with the worst record in baseball and a pitching staff that was largely to blame. The Mets desired catching help because of injuries to their two starters at the position: Travis d’Arnaud (who had season-ending Tommy John surgery) and Kevin Plawecki (who is expected to return later this month from a fractured left hand). Their fill-ins, the journeyman Jose Lobaton and the rookie Tomas Nido, combined to hit .156 with zero home runs in 33 games entering Tuesday. Mesoraco has been slightly better; he hit .220 with one home run in 18 games. He was once an All-Star, in 2014, when he hit .273 with 25 home runs. But in the 2015-2017 seasons, he hit .191 in just 95 games because of a litany of health issues including operations on both hips, a broken foot, and surgery on his left shoulder. The Mets are hoping a now-healthy Mesoraco can help. Harvey, who wanted to remain a starting pitcher, will now pitch at a home run-friendly stadium in Cincinnati. With some tweaks, the Reds can perhaps fix Harvey and flip him for a better return than Mesoraco could have garnered at the July trade deadline. Other teams were interested in Harvey, but the Reds were aggressive and fit the Mets’ needs. The Reds owed Mesoraco just over $13 million this season, the final year on his contract extension, and the Mets owed Harvey $5.6 million this season, the final year before he was eligible for free agency. Each team will only pay the remaining salary for the player they dealt, said a person familiar with the deal, meaning the Mets will not pay extra for Mesoraco. In order to make room for Mesoraco on the active roster, the Mets placed Frazier on the 10-day disabled list with a left hamstring strain. Before Tuesday’s game, Mets Manager Mickey Callaway told reporters that Frazier had been dealing with some discomfort for weeks but that it worsened in Monday’s game. In a sputtering Mets lineup, Frazier had been one of the most consistent threats to get on base. To help, the Mets are expected to call up infield prospect Luis Guillorme from Class AAA Las Vegas. Follow James Wagner on Twitter: @ByJamesWagner. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS