Supported by Washington is in the conference finals for the first time in the Alex Ovechkin era, but Tampa Bay is loaded for a run at another Stanley Cup. By Andrew Knoll The two N.H.L. teams that remain in the Eastern Conference playoffs — the Tampa Bay Lightning and the Washington Capitals — are the two division winners, and are coming off triumphs over formidable No. 2 seeds. And there is one certainty: The league will have a new champion, after Washington knocked out the two-time defending champion Pittsburgh Penguins in Round 2. Now the Capitals face a Lightning club that went from missing the playoffs last season to topping the conference this season. The teams are quite familiar with each other: From 1998 to 2013, they were rivals in the now-defunct Southeast Division. Each team is captained by a goal-scoring virtuoso: Washington wing Alex Ovechkin, who this season won his seventh Maurice Richard Trophy as the league’s top goal-scorer, and Tampa Bay center Steven Stamkos, who is a two-time winner. But important contributions from others have gotten the teams this far.  The Lightning had the easier route. They eliminated the Devils in five games in the first round, then defeated the Boston Bruins in five games in the shortest series of the second round, after finishing only one point ahead of them in the regular season.  The Capitals needed six games, including four that went into overtime, to get past the Columbus Blue Jackets in the first round. Then Washington ousted Pittsburgh to advance to the conference finals for the first time since Ovechkin arrived in 2005.  Washington had lost in the second round in all six previous trips, including three defeats at the hands of Pittsburgh and one to the Lightning. Tampa Bay won both previous playoff series against Washington, as well as two of three regular-season meetings with the Capitals.  Tampa Bay rebounded from a 6-2 loss in Game 1 with four straight victories over Boston, outscoring the Bruins, 15-7. Center Brayden Point had 7 points in the series while frequently going nose-to-nose with the Bruins’ vaunted top line. After being on the ice for five of Boston’s Game 1 goals, Point responded with 4 points in Game 2 and a pair of goals later in the series that were equal parts creativity and doggedness.  His linemate Ondrej Palat posted multiple-point efforts in Games 2 and 3. Yanni Gourde had 4 points in the series as well, with Tampa Bay’s secondary scorers carrying the load when the top line of Stamkos, Nikita Kucherov and J.T. Miller quieted down after an explosive first round.  Tampa Bay’s top defenseman, the Norris Trophy finalist Victor Hedman, notched all 6 of his postseason points in the second round. Goalie Andrei Vasilevskiy, named as a Vezina Trophy finalist, is tied for the top winning percentage in the playoffs and has the second-best save percentage (.927) despite absorbing that Game 1 defeat. Ovechkin figured heavily into Washington’s success in the second round with three goals and three assists against Pittsburgh. He scored or earned the primary assist on the Capitals’ three game-winning goals that came in the third period or overtime, including a pair of come-from-behind victories. Center Evgeny Kuznetsov contributed 6 points in the series; 5 came in the final three games, including the series-winning goal in overtime of Game 6. Washington’s power play, scoring 30.9 percent of the time, is the most potent of the remaining playoff teams, by far. Center Nicklas Backstrom played a strong series before sustaining a hand injury in Game 5 and missing Game 6, leaving his status for Game 1 of the conference finals in question. Forward Tom Wilson will return from a three-game suspension for Game 1. After a rocky stretch, goalie Braden Holtby started and finished all six games, collecting four wins and allowing two goals per game. The Capitals, who entered the league in 1974, have never won the Stanley Cup. The Lightning are seeking their second Cup after winning in 2004, their 12th season in the N.H.L. Washington made its lone Stanley Cup finals appearance in 1998, when the Capitals were swept by the Detroit Red Wings. Tampa Bay, which has reached the conference finals in three of the past four seasons, most recently appeared in the Cup finals three years ago, losing to the Chicago Blackhawks. Only two players in the series have won the Cup: Tampa Bay left wing Chris Kunitz, who has won four, one in Anaheim and three with Pittsburgh; and Washington defenseman Brooks Orpik, who also won with the Penguins. All times Eastern; x-if necessary Friday: Washington at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m., NBCSN Sunday: Washington at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m., NBCSN Tuesday: Tampa Bay at Washington, 8 p.m., NBCSN Thursday, May 17: Tampa Bay at Washington, 8 p.m., NBCSN x-Saturday, May 19: Washington at Tampa Bay, 7:15 p.m., NBC x-Monday, May 21: Tampa Bay at Washington, 8 p.m., NBCSN x-Wednesday, May 23: Washington at Tampa Bay, 8 p.m., NBCSN Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS