Supported by Red Sox 5, Yankees 4 By Billy Witz Everything was going just divinely for the Yankees. They had lost just once in three weeks, a surge that carried them to the best record in baseball. And for two consecutive nights, they had set somnambulant Yankee Stadium rocking with late-game conquests of the Boston Red Sox. Then on Thursday night, that old lightning rod, Alex Rodriguez, showed up — his girlfriend, Jennifer Lopez, in tow. And just like that, with J-Rod taking in the game from a suite above the third-base dugout, the skies opened up, the Yankees ran out of late-game magic in this series, and a 5-4 loss to the Red Sox ensued. The defeat, which ended an eight-game winning streak and was only their second loss in the last 19 games, dropped the Yankees into a first-place tie with the Red Sox in the American League East. They have split six games this season. If there was some solace, it was that the Yankees did not go easily. After enduring a 55-minute rain delay and getting just one hit through six innings against Eduardo Rodriguez and reliever Matt Barnes, the Yankees rallied to tie the score with four runs in the seventh. But J.D. Martinez immediately seized the lead back for the Red Sox. His fly ball off Dellin Betances to lead off the eighth carried just over Aaron Judge’s outstretched glove, which collided with a fan, and the ball landed in the first row of the seats in right field. Judge, who leapt at the wall in the playoffs last year to steal a home run from Francisco Lindor of Cleveland, did not blame the fan — who did not reach into the field of play. “I ran into him, but once you get past that line it’s fair game,” Judge said. “For me, if I get a better read and jump at the right time and get in a better position, I make the play.” The Yankees threatened in the eighth until Joe Kelly, who gave up Boston’s lead in the seventh, froze Neil Walker with a changeup with two runners aboard. Earlier in the inning, Kelly retired Tyler Austin on a fly ball to left — ending their first confrontation since Kelly hit Austin last month at Fenway Park, precipitating a bench-clearing brawl. By the time Red Sox closer Craig Kimbrel — who was torched by the Yankees in their comeback win on Wednesday — retired Brett Gardner, Judge and Didi Gregorius in an orderly ninth inning, Rodriguez and Lopez had departed their perch. Before the seventh, the biggest buzz in the ballpark had come just before the fifth-inning downpour, when fans seated in the second deck realized that royalty was sitting above them: Rodriguez, the former Yankee, dressed in a black trench coat, and Lopez, the pop star, wrapped in a lavender pea coat with her hair in a bun. Within moments, fans had turned away from the game, craning their necks and pointing their cellphone cameras at the couple. It was a rare appearance in the Bronx for Rodriguez, whose final game as a Yankee two years ago was punctuated by fierce thunder and lightning that cut short a ceremony to honor him. The skies opened up again on Thursday, with pouring rain and a few brief flashes of lightning and rolling thunder. When play commenced after the delay, Rodriguez and Lopez were shown on the stadium scoreboard. The cheers drew a thumbs up from Rodriguez and a wave from Lopez. Even the Yankees in the dugout took notice, with some players giggling. “I did see that,” Manager Aaron Boone said, re-enacting a wave. “They couldn’t see me though.” For the third night in a row, the Yankees put a dent in the Red Sox bullpen — even if it was hardly by dint of mashing the ball. They loaded the bases on a Miguel Andujar’s line single, Gleyber Torres’s check-swing hit and a four-pitch walk to Walker. Kelly entered and walked Gardner on four pitches to draw the Yankees within 4-1. That brought up Judge, who delivered the game-winning hit off Kelly on Tuesday, and he again grounded a single to left, scoring Torres to make it 4-2. Gregorius, who is hitless in 24 at-bats, grounded out to first to score Walker and narrow the gap to 4-3. Kelly then bounced a breaking ball that eluded catcher Christian Vazquez, and Gardner raced home to tie the score at 4-4. But that was the last of the Yankees’ heroics. And the start of another frustrating night for Betances, the four-time All-Star reliever who has allowed four home runs this season — one more than all of last year. Betances has cleaned up the mechanical problems that plagued him last year, but he is eminently more hittable this season. He dismissed Martinez’s homer as a 315-foot fly ball and asked reporters if they had been watching the games, reminding them that a number of the hits he had surrendered lately were bloopers or came off broken bats. “Last year I was out of whack delivery-wise,” he said. “I had no idea where I was throwing the ball. This year, I’m attacking the strike zone. I feel great. The results just haven’t been there.” When the Yankees couldn’t muster another big hit against Kelly, Kimbrel made it a drama-free ninth. He struck out Gardner with a high fastball, retired Judge on a fly ball with a breaking pitch and threw out Gregorius, who dribbled a fastball to the left of the mound. “He made his pitches when he had to,” Judge said. “He kind of got behind Gardy a little bit, he got behind me — but then when it was on the line, he went up there and made his pitches when he had to. That’s the definition of what a closer does.” Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS