Supported by By The Associated Press TORONTO — Toronto Blue Jays closer Roberto Osuna has been placed on administrative leave by Major League Baseball after being charged with assault. The league said Tuesday that was investigating the circumstances of the charges in accordance with the joint domestic violence policy between the league and the M.L.B. Players Association. The Toronto Police said Osuna would appear in court June 18, but would not provide more details. “We are aware of the incident involving Roberto and fully support the decision by the Commissioner’s Office to place him on administrative leave,” the Blue Jays said in a statement. “We are taking the matter extremely seriously, as the type of conduct associated with this incident is not reflective of our values as an organization. “As this remains an ongoing investigation by Toronto Police, the club will not comment further on the matter.” Osuna, 23, is in his fourth major league season, all with the Blue Jays. A native of Juan Jose Rios, Mexico, Osuna has nine saves in 15 appearances this season with a 2.93 earned run average and 13 strikeouts. The Blue Jays started a six-game homestand Tuesday night against the Seattle Mariners. The team had planned to give away Osuna T-shirts to the first 15,000 fans attending the series finale on Thursday. The Blue Jays recalled the right-hander Jake Petricka from Class A Buffalo to take Osuna’s spot on the roster. Major League Baseball and the Players Association agreed on a domestic violence policy in 2015. It allows the league to discipline a player accused in a domestic violence incident regardless of whether it results in a trial. Aroldis Chapman, currently with the Yankees, was the first player to be disciplined under the terms of the policy when the league suspended him for the first 30 games of the 2016 season for an accusation of domestic violence on Dec. 7, 2015. Days later, shortstop Jose Reyes was suspended for the first 51 games of the 2016 season after a claim of domestic violence. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS