Supported by On Baseball By Tyler Kepner For a moment on Thursday afternoon, before the taut finale of another Yankees-Red Sox clash that has found its old, thrilling mojo, Boston Manager Alex Cora sounded like an analyst again. Someone asked about reliever Carson Smith, who had smoothly navigated the roiling Bronx seas the night before. Cora acknowledged that, but made a larger point about the Yankees. “What they’re doing against relievers, it’s unreal,” said Cora, who worked for ESPN before coaching in Houston last season. “The last, what, three weeks, they did it to the Angels, they did it to the Astros, to the Indians, to us. It seems like in the seventh inning, they turn on the switch and the at-bats are that much better.” Flash forward to the seventh inning a few hours later. Trailing by four runs, with the bottom of the order coming up, the Yankees rallied to tie the score. They lost, 5-4, on a J.D. Martinez home run in the eighth, but they weren’t too upset about it. “The ball was hit 315,” said reliever Dellin Betances, meaning one foot past the minimum distance in the right-field corner. “It’s just one of those things.” The Yankees are not complaining; nearly everything else has gone their way lately. They are 26-11 after taking two of three from the Red Sox, who have the same record. This matches the Yankees’ best start since 1998, the peak of their dynasty under Joe Torre. They started 28-9 that season and rumbled all the way through October. If you’re into omens, the Yankees have won the World Series every 20 years, on the 8s, for a while now. They beat the Chicago Cubs in 1938, the Milwaukee Braves in 1958, the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1978 and the San Diego Padres in 1998. That is just a cute little factoid, of course; the real cause for optimism, among Yankees fans, should be the way their team is winning. Their knack for late thunder shows up most emphatically in the ninth inning, when they are outscoring opponents by 21-3. Only the Astros’ Ken Giles has actually punched himself in the face after a late Yankees blitz, but other closers have surely been tempted. “I think a lot of it goes back to last year in the postseason,” said the Yankees’ Aaron Judge, who homered off Craig Kimbrel in the eighth inning on Wednesday, and singled in a run off Joe Kelly in the seventh on Thursday. “A lot of these guys got their taste of what the postseason atmosphere is. Now they play in games like this, man, it’s just another day. It’s just, go out there and get the job done. When the crowd starts getting a little crazy and gets behind us, it’s just go up there and have quality at-bats and see what happens.” Five times already this month, the Yankees have won by taking the lead in their final at-bat. They did it twice in Houston, twice against Cleveland and once against Boston. Those were the other three teams that reached an American League division series last October. Early statements don’t come more forcefully than that. “Our lineup as a whole is really hard to get through time and time again, and it’s a tribute to all those guys that make you work,” Manager Aaron Boone said. “If you’re not on top of your game, you’re in some trouble against us. That’s because of the way each guy goes up there with a plan and grinds out an at-bat. I’ve seen that basically every single night.” Yankees hitters lead the A.L. in pitches per plate appearance, at 4.07. Judge ranks third in the A.L. at 4.46 and Brett Gardner ranks fourth at 4.33. (No other team has two players in the top eight.) Judge walked three times on Thursday and is leading the A.L. in walks for the second season in a row; his refined eye is largely what makes him so dangerous. Gardner is hitting just .208 but continues to be one of the more impressive and important Yankees. He is the only hitter remaining from the 2009 title team — only one other active Yankees position player, Neil Walker, was even in the majors back then — and sets an example for the organization’s philosophy. On Wednesday, Gardner smashed his two-run, go-ahead triple off Kimbrel on a full count. On Thursday, he greeted Kelly with a four-pitch walk to drive in the first run of the game-tying rally. When Kimbrel struck him out swinging in the ninth, on a full-count fastball at the top of the strike zone, Gardner immediately turned to the plate umpire, Stu Scheurwater, and asked if he had just swung at ball four. It was close, Scheurwater told him. Gardner said later that it was such a tough pitch, he wished he had let it go; there was no virtue in going down swinging when a calculated take would have given him a better shot to claw his way on base. It was a typically sophisticated insight from Gardner, who still marveled at the way the opposite leadoff man, Boston’s Mookie Betts, wore down Masahiro Tanaka to start Wednesday’s game. “He ended up striking out, but he saw 11 pitches,” Gardner said. “For me, that was a quality at-bat. He gets out, doesn’t even put a ball in play, but he makes a guy empty his tank early, throw all his best stuff up there, and you kind of let that guy know, even though you got out, it’s going to be a long day.” At the end of those long days, teams like the Yankees and the Red Sox usually prevail. That is what makes for such compelling theater when they meet, and makes you glad they still have 13 dates left this season — at least. Follow Tyler Kepner on Twitter: @TylerKepner. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS