Supported by By Jeff Babineau PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — Dustin Johnson, the world No. 1, hopes that a new putter and a new putting method will help turn around his fortunes at a premier golf championship that has mystified him for years. Johnson got off to the right start on Thursday at the Players Championship, taming the sometimes diabolical TPC Sawgrass to shoot a relatively breezy 6-under 66 and join five others with the Day 1 lead. It was his best score ever on the Stadium Course, and only his fourth time in the 60s. Johnson, 33, is in his 10th Players, where he has finished better than a tie for 28th only once, that being a tie for 12th last year. TPC Sawgrass and its greens have always had the upper hand on him, so this time around, he switched things up. He used the AimPoint method of reading greens for the first time in competition, and used a smaller version of the mallet putter that pushed him to the No. 1 ranking. “I don’t think I putted very well around here as a whole,” Johnson said, adding, “That’s the one thing I’ve struggled with around here, and obviously today I rolled it nicely.” On a day when the winds stayed down and there was little defense for the golf course, 38 players shot in the 60s. Johnson was joined at 66 by four other Americans — Webb Simpson, Matt Kuchar, Chesson Hadley and Patrick Cantlay — as well as Alex Noren of Sweden. Si Woo Kim, who a year ago at 21 became the youngest winner in the championship’s 44-year history, was a shot off the lead. There was another logjam of six players at 67, including the rookie Keith Mitchell, who didn’t even know he was in the field until Paul Casey withdrew on Wednesday, and the 51-year-old Steve Stricker. “I’m not surprised,” Stricker said. “I expect to play well.” Johnson started his round on the back nine and ran off six birdies in an eight-hole stretch beginning at the par-5 11th. Johnson’s latest challenger for No. 1 spot, Justin Thomas, shot a 73. This is a big week, and if Johnson keeps winning, he won’t be caught atop the rankings soon. But he could lose the No. 1 spot if he finishes 12th or worse. “It was definitely a big deal to get there, and it’s a big deal to stay there, I think,” Johnson said. The day’s premier grouping included another player well-versed in being No. 1, Tiger Woods, who played with Phil Mickelson at TPC Sawgrass for the first time since 2001 and for the first time over all since the 2014 P.G.A. Championship. There weren’t many fireworks in their group, which was filled out by Rickie Fowler. As the feature afternoon group, they brought out thousands of sun-soaked fans. “Toward the back nine, it started getting a little sparse,” Woods said. “I think they might have tipped back a couple and got a little sleepy.” Woods made an 18-footer for eagle at the par-5 ninth hole, but needed to salvage bogey at his final hole to shoot a 72. Mickelson, who said he lacked energy and focus, carded a 79, his highest opening round at the Players since 2000. Fowler shot a 74. “I said it Sunday at Wells Fargo, I was worried about energy this week,” said Mickelson, who won the Players in 2007. “And I just kind of ran out at the end.” Mickelson was hanging around until chopping up the 14th hole for a double bogey, and then adding a pair of doubles on the 16th and 17th with balls in the water. He shot a 41 on his closing nine. Woods was making his eighth start of the season just weeks after the one-year anniversary of his spinal fusion, which was his fourth back surgery. The Players shows no favoritism to long hitters such as Woods and Mickelson, but Woods is a two-time winner of the event (2001 and 2013). Woods hit only five of 14 fairways, twice having to chip out of the woods on par-5 holes, and never did get much going. He ended up with a bogey-5 at No. 18 after pulling a tee shot struck with a 3-iron into water left of the fairway. He sank an 11-foot putt to finish the round. “I knew I was going to drop a shot, but didn’t want to shoot over par for the round,” Woods said. “I was playing better than that. So it was nice to make that putt.” Thursday was the 36th round that Mickelson and Woods have played in the same grouping. Woods extended his head-to-head edge to 17-15-4. The feature group in the morning — Rory McIlroy, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas — wasn’t much better. McIlroy was the only one to break par at 71. Thomas had a 73 and Spieth appeared headed for a fourth consecutive weekend off at The Players when he shot 75, which included an eagle when he drove the green on the par-4 12th. “It could have been better. I could have been probably a little worse, as well. It was probably a fair reflection of how I played,” McIlroy said. “It looked like it played easy out there, but our group didn’t feel like that with what we shot.” The Associated Press contributed to this report. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS