Supported by By Adam Liptak WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court heard arguments on Tuesday in a long-running dispute over congressional and state legislative districts in Texas that challengers said discriminate against minority voters. The case was the court’s third voting-rights case of the term. The two earlier ones, from Wisconsin and Maryland, concerned claims of partisan gerrymandering, where the political party in power draws maps to give its candidates an advantage. The Supreme Court has never struck down a voting district as a partisan gerrymander. Tuesday’s argument concerned a more established legal theory, with the challengers arguing that Texas lawmakers had violated the Constitution and the Voting Rights Act by making it harder for minority voters to elect their preferred candidates. Much of the argument concerned the issue of whether the case was properly before the justices at all. Last year, a three-judge panel of the Federal District Court for the Western District of Texas, in San Antonio, ruled that a congressional district including Corpus Christi denied Hispanic voters “their opportunity to elect a candidate of their choice.” The district court also rejected a second congressional district stretching from San Antonio to Austin, saying that race had been the primary factor in drawing it. In a separate decision, the district court found similar flaws in several state legislative districts. But the court did not issue an injunction compelling the state to do anything, and only instructed Texas officials to promptly advise it about whether they would try to draw new maps. “What does the piece of paper say here?” Justice Stephen G. Breyer asked. “It seems to me the piece of paper says come to court. Now, if we’re going to call that a grant of an injunction, we’re going to hear 50,000 appeals.” There was a second curious wrinkle: The district court itself had, for the most part, endorsed the maps in 2012, after the Supreme Court rejected earlier ones and told the court to try again. The 2012 maps, the panel later said, had been considered in haste in advance of pending elections. On Tuesday, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. at one point seemed to agree. “It was preliminary, as opposed to permanent,” he said of the court-drawn maps. In 2013, the Texas Legislature decided not to draw new maps and instead mostly adopted the one drawn by the court in San Antonio. Scott A. Keller, Texas’ solicitor general, said state lawmakers had adopted the maps after substantial debate and deliberation. “There is absolutely no evidence in plaintiffs’ briefs that somehow the Legislature was trying to lock in discriminatory districts,” he said. Allison J. Riggs, a lawyer for the challengers, disagreed. The question for the justices, she said, was, “Did the Legislature adopt the interim plan for race-neutral reasons, or did it use the adoption of that interim plan as a mask for the discriminatory intent that had manifested itself just two years ago?” Later in the argument, she answered her own question. “They wanted to end the litigation,” she said, “by maintaining the discrimination against black and Latino voters, muffling their growing political voice in a state where black and Latino voters’ population is exploding.” After three election cycles that used the interim maps it had drawn, the district court ruled that they were flawed. “Although this court had ‘approved’ the maps for use as interim maps, given the severe time constraints it was operating under at the time of their adoption,” the court said that approval was “not based on a full examination of the record or the governing law” and was “subject to revision.” The court concluded that Texas’ adoption of the interim maps was part of “a litigation strategy designed to insulate the 2011 or 2013 plans from further challenge, regardless of their legal infirmities.” Edwin S. Kneedler, a lawyer for the federal government arguing in support of Texas, said it was a mistake to apply the flaws in the earlier map to the later one. “The legal principle that went wrong,” he said, was that “the court basically said that the taint that it found with respect to certain districts in 2011 carried forward to 2013.” Mr. Kneedler said the state deserved credit for trying to end the redistricting litigation by adopting the court-drawn map. “That’s something to be commended, when a state legislature proceeds in that manner,” he said. Justice Sonia Sotomayor appeared unconvinced. “Are you ending a litigation,” she asked, “or are you ending the possibility of a court stopping you from discriminating?” The two consolidated cases argued Tuesday, Abbott v. Perez, No. 17-586, and Abbott v. Perez, No. 17-626, had reached the Supreme Court once before. Last year, state officials filed emergency applications in the Supreme Court, asking the justices to block the district court’s order until their appeal was heard. In a brief order, the Supreme Court agreed. The vote was 5 to 4, with the court’s more conservative members in the majority. Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS