Supported by By Jonathan Martin and Alexander Burns WASHINGTON — Republicans narrowly averted political disaster in the West Virginia Senate primary on Tuesday with the defeat of former coal executive Don Blankenship while mainstream Democrats fended off a liberal insurgent in the Ohio governor’s race, bringing relief to the establishment of both parties on a day of elections in four states. But Washington Republicans were handed a stinging defeat in North Carolina, where Representative Robert Pittenger was defeated by Mark Harris, a pastor who made his name denouncing same-sex marriage. The unexpected setback is likely to jolt congressional Republicans yet again and underscore that their fragile House majority is the party’s most vulnerable front in 2018. In the West Virginia Senate primary, Mr. Blankenship came in a distant third after an 11th-hour intervention by President Trump that was coordinated by Senate Republicans. They saw Mr. Blankenship as unelectable and unworthy of the Senate, given that he served a year in prison in connection with a mining disaster in 2010 that killed 29 men, and made racially offensive comments during the campaign. [Read our six takeaways from Tuesday night’s primary elections.] West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey won the Republican nomination to challenge Senator Joe Manchin III, one of the most vulnerable Democrats seeking re-election this year. Mr. Blankenship, speaking to reporters Tuesday night, said he believed a hostile tweet by Mr. Trump may have cost him 10 percentage points or more in the race. After the May 1 debate, he maintained, all three candidates’ internal surveys showed him surging into the lead. “That might have been the Trump impact,” he said of his loss. “When you’re 84 percent positive like he is, it can be big.” Mr. Trump appeared happy with the results. In an early Wednesday morning Twitter post, Mr. Trump wrote, “The Republican Party had a great night. Tremendous voter energy and excitement, and all candidates are those who have a great chance of winning in November.” In a hard-fought battle in Ohio between two liberal Democrats, Richard Cordray, the former head of Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, won the party’s nomination in the governor’s race over the former congressman and presidential hopeful Dennis Kucinich. The victory by Mr. Cordray, who was endorsed by Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and drew strong labor support, came as a relief to many Democrats who saw Mr. Kucinich as likely to lose in the fall, given his sharply left-wing views and ties to a group sympathetic to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. Mr. Cordray will compete against Mike DeWine, the state attorney general, who claimed the Republican nomination after an aggressive challenge from Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor. “This victory happened for a reason,” Mr. Cordray told supporters at a hotel in downtown Columbus, as they cheered and waved campaign signs. “You demanded change and we heard you and we want the same.” Echoing a campaign message that focused largely on helping the little guy, he promised to continue fighting for “kitchen-table issues that people across Ohio told us were on their minds,” including access to affordable health care and spreading out economic opportunity. President Trump offered his congratulations to Mr. DeWine in a tweet Wednesday morning, and called Mr. Cordray a “socialist.” Another Ohio contest, however, was more on the minds of Washington Republicans: the nomination battle for the Columbus-area seat vacated by the former Representative Pat Tiberi. State Senator Troy Balderson, who enjoyed support from Mr. Tiberi, narrowly defeated the business executive Melanie Leneghan, a conservative with backing from members of the House Freedom Caucus, in a contest that became a proxy war between party factions. National Republicans were considering not competing in the special election had Ms. Leneghan won, but now they will likely aggressively target Danny O’Connor, the Franklin County recorder and the Democratic nominee, in what has been a conservative-leaning district. A special election will be held in August. In the race for the House seat left open by Representative James Renacci of Ohio, a Republican who easily won the nomination to face Senator Sherrod Brown, the former N.F.L. wide receiver Anthony Gonzalez defeated State Representative Christina Hagan in a contest where establishment-aligned Republicans also grew nervous and poured money in to lift Mr. Gonzalez. Indiana Republicans settled a bloody Senate primary between three largely indistinguishable candidates, selecting Mike Braun, a wealthy former state legislator and business executive, to challenge Senator Joe Donnelly, a first-term Democrat. Mr. Braun campaigned successfully as a political outsider, though his business record is likely to face closer scrutiny in the general election. Mr. Donnelly is another vulnerable Senate Democrat this year, and Mr. Trump is scheduled to campaign against him on Thursday. “We seem to be in the era of the outsider, said John Hammond, a lawyer and member of the Republican National Committee from Indiana. “That message along with it being extremely well funded, he outspent the other campaigns two to one.” And in a low-profile election distinguished only by a famous last name, Greg Pence, the vice president’s brother, claimed the Republican nomination in Indiana’s 6th Congressional District. Mr. Pence, who vacuumed up campaign funds from national donors close to his brother, is the strong favorite to win what was his brother’s old seat. North Carolina did not have any major statewide elections, but voters there delivered the biggest upset of the night: Mr. Pittenger, a third-term Republican, was defeated by Mr. Harris, a pastor who nearly unseated the congressman in the 2016 primary there. The first incumbent to lose renomination this year, Mr. Pittenger sought to repel Mr. Harris by enthusiastically embracing Mr. Trump. But he found little support in return from the administration. See full results and maps from the West Virginia primaries. Republicans were already concerned about holding the Charlotte-to-Fayetteville seat — Democratic nominee Dan McCready was outraising Mr. Pittenger — and now must decide how aggressively to support Mr. Harris. Mr. McCready had over $1.2 million in the bank as of last month while Mr. Harris had just $70,000. In Ohio, Mr. Cordray’s victory in the Democratic primary marks an important initial success in his return to electoral politics after serving for most of a decade in the Obama administration. His success also demonstrated a show of strength for Ms. Warren and unions against the more far-left elements of the party, including some of Senator Bernie Sanders’s allies who had endorsed Mr. Kucinich. (Mr. Sanders did not make an endorsement in the race.) Should Mr. Cordray win this November, it will give Democrats a foothold back in a battleground state that has been drifting to the right in recent years. A former Ohio attorney general who was defeated for re-election in 2010, Mr. Cordray faced stiff opposition in his political homecoming, most notably from Mr. Kucinich, a flamboyant 71-year-old former congressman and Cleveland mayor who is aligned with the far left. Despite collecting endorsements from powerful labor unions and campaigning alongside Senator Warren — a hero to liberals — Mr. Cordray struggled at times to inspire enthusiasm from rank-and-file Democratic voters. And after the mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla., in February, Mr. Cordray agonized over having taken conservative stances on gun control in the past; he had even earned the endorsement of the National Rifle Association in 2010. Yet Mr. Cordray ultimately had far broader appeal than Mr. Kucinich, who also flailed in the final weeks of the race to explain his past praise of Mr. Trump and his decision to accept $20,000 from a group supportive of Mr. Assad. (After attempting to dismiss questions about the fee, he eventually returned the money.) Mr. Cordray will confront a tougher and more conventional opponent in Mr. DeWine. A longtime political hand in Ohio and Washington, Mr. DeWine is a powerful fund-raiser with a record of running toward the center in difficult elections. Mr. DeWine is likely to benefit, somewhat paradoxically, from both Mr. Trump’s strength in the state and the popularity of the outgoing governor, John Kasich, a Republican who ran against Mr. Trump in 2016 and is one of the president’s most insistent critics. The burden will be on Mr. Cordray to show that his populist message and soft-spoken persona can resonate in a state where Republicans have held the governorship for all but four years since the early 1990s. But the most closely watched race — and, for Republicans, the most anxiety-inducing one — was in West Virginia, where Mr. Blankenship threatened to again torpedo the party’s chances for success in a red-state Senate seat. Claiming victory on Tuesday night, Mr. Morrisey quickly turned to what is likely to be the centerpiece of his campaign: driving a wedge between Mr. Manchin and Mr. Trump. “When President Trump needed Joe Manchin’s help on so many issues, Senator Manchin said no,” Mr. Morrisey said. In his own statement, Mr. Manchin vowed that the campaign would be “about bringing people together who care about making life better for Americans who work hard for a paycheck.” President Trump had remained quiet about the primary race even as Mr. Blankenship began attacking Republican leaders, such as referring to the family of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, Mr. McConnell’s wife, as the majority leader’s “China family” and calling Mr. McConnell himself “Cocaine Mitch.” But after a telephone call on Sunday with Mr. McConnell, and on the advice of his own aides, Mr. Trump finally waded into the race with a tweet Monday morning aimed at West Virginians. “Don Blankenship, currently running for Senate, can’t win the General Election in your State…No way!” Mr. Trump wrote, before encouraging voters to support either of Mr. Blankenship’s main opponents. Mr. Trump also invoked the last time Republicans gave away a Senate seat by nominating a flawed candidate, an event that he suggested would live in political infamy. “Remember Alabama,” he wrote, alluding to the party’s nomination of the former state judge Roy S. Moore, who lost a special election after a series of women emerged to accuse him of making sexual advances on them when they were teenagers. Mr. Blankenship faced a series of attacks from Republican groups aligned with Mr. McConnell for his role in the mining explosion and was also criticized for keeping his official residence in Las Vegas and refusing to fully disclose his extensive financial holdings. But while Mr. Morrisey and Representative Evan Jenkins attacked one another, and a Democratic super PAC assailed Mr. Jenkins, Mr. Blankenship’s poll numbers crept back up. By last weekend, when it became clear that he was a threat to win and imperil the party’s one-seat Senate majority, Republican officials determined the moment had come for Mr. Trump to step in. And after it became clear that Mr. Blankenship had lost Tuesday, Mr. McConnell’s allies exulted. “Thanks for playing, @donblankenship,” Mr. McConnell’s political arm wrote on Twitter, featuring a picture of the majority leader surrounded by white dust that was a take-off on the logo for the Netflix series “Narcos.” Jonathan Martin reported from Washington, and Alexander Burns from New York. Trip Gabriel contributed reporting from Charleston, W.Va.; Sydney Ember from Columbus, Ohio; and Michael Tackett from Indianapolis. Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS