Supported by By Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Helene Cooper and Eric Schmitt WASHINGTON — Four American commandos take off on foot, under heavy gunfire, to look for missing teammates in the borderland of Niger. Another is shot in the elbow behind the wheel of a vehicle yet continues to drive. That driver, after his team leader is shot and thrown from his truck, turns the vehicle around and goes back to pick him up as militants loyal to the Islamic State close in. The Pentagon’s release on Thursday of a report into the Oct. 4 ambush in Niger that killed four American soldiers, their interpreter and four Nigerien soldiers is short on details about how the underequipped team of American commandos came to be sent to hunt the leader of an Islamic State affiliate. But the executive summary and a video animation of the ambush show heroic efforts among the soldiers to save one another, some of them fighting to the end. The pitched battle began at 11:40 a.m., just after the convoy of eight American and Nigerien vehicles left the village of Tongo Tongo. More than five hours later, after two French Mirage aircraft made low, lifesaving passes to keep the militants from swarming the Americans and Nigeriens, the surviving members of the team were evacuated. Between those bookends, the soldiers scrambled to administer aid and find a way to stay alive in a one-sided battle. Video footage seized by militants from the helmet camera of Staff Sgt. Jeremiah W. Johnson, one of those killed, had already made clear that he and Staff Sgt. Dustin M. Wright stopped and tried to assist a fallen teammate, Staff Sgt. Bryan C. Black, when the three were overrun by fighters after having been separated from the rest of the group. Sergeant Black was killed instantly, and the other two soldiers were forced to flee, before Sergeant Johnson also went down. Sergeant Wright, the last to fall, stopped running, turned around and tried to keep the advancing fighters away from Sergeant Johnson before being killed himself. But what had not been previously evident was what happened to the rest of the Army Special Forces team, called Operational Detachment-Alpha Team 3212. The Pentagon animation, based on battlefield evidence and eyewitness accounts, showed the remaining soldiers, caught in a fight they had not expected. After the ambush began, the convoy stopped and returned fire. The team’s leader, Capt. Michael Perozeni, and a group of Nigerien soldiers, all on foot, tried to flank the attacking fighters. The maneuver — a common tactic for a small unit caught in a close-range ambush — failed as the militants massed and counterattacked. Captain Perozeni discovered that there were far more fighters than initially thought, and he and the Nigerien soldiers ran back to the convoy. He ordered the entire convoy to fall back. Smoke grenades were thrown to hide their withdrawal, and five of the vehicles made it out of the immediate zone of attack. But the black utility vehicle carrying Sergeant Wright, Sergeant Johnson and Sergeant Black did not make it out. Two Nigerien trucks also stayed, immobilized. The three Americans were killed around noon. The five-vehicle remnant of the convoy pushed nearly half a mile south but came to a halt as it became clear that more than a quarter of Team 3212 was missing. Two American commandos volunteered to go back on foot and look for them, heading into the thick of the ambush site, where they shot and killed several militants. The rest of the team remained behind, continuing to fire back at the advancing fighters. Two more American commandos then left that group on foot and headed back toward the ambush site to help in the search. The militants continued to surge forward. For the second time, Captain Perozeni ordered the remnants of his team to fall back. Only two American vehicles were left; the Nigerien ones were immobilized. Captain Perozeni jumped into the bed of a truck driven by Sgt. First Class Brent Bartels, who drove around in a circle sweeping up Nigerien troops. Then, believing that the second American vehicle was behind him, he accelerated hard to the north. But Sgt. La David T. Johnson, an Army mechanic by trade and the driver of the second American truck, had been pinned down by heavy fire and was unable to get back into the driver’s seat. He and two Nigerien soldiers ran west. The two Nigeriens were shot and killed within 1,000 feet. Sergeant Johnson kept running, for almost a quarter-mile, before taking cover under the lone thorny tree in the scrub. He kept firing his weapon until the advancing militants surrounded and killed him. The other American vehicle was heading north, still under fire. Five of the seven people aboard were shot. Captain Perozeni was thrown from the bed of the truck; Sergeant Bartels, wounded, turned around and went back to get him, then continued north until the truck got stuck in a swamp. The group radioed for help, saying it was about to be overrun. The call was the second the soldiers made, after initially reporting that they were “troops in contact.” That phrase, rare for that part of the world, means in military parlance that a unit was involved in an extensive gun battle. The four American commandos who had gone on foot to look for the missing team members rejoined the group, and they abandoned the stuck truck, running into the tree line. “The combined group established a final defensive position,” the executive summary says, “where they prepared to make their last stand.” Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS