Supported by By Matthew Haag The president of Nordstrom Rack flew to St. Louis to apologize on Tuesday to three black friends who were falsely accused last week of trying to steal clothing at one of the company’s stores. The teenage friends had stopped into a Nordstrom Rack in suburban St. Louis on Thursday to look for last-minute deals before a high school prom on Friday night. Two employees followed them throughout the store, closely monitoring their every move, and reported them to the police. “Every time we moved, they moved,” Mekhi Lee, 19, told KMOV-TV in St. Louis on Tuesday. When they left the store — carrying items they had just purchased — police officers were waiting for them outside. For many minorities, what happened at Nordstrom Rack illustrated a disheartening everyday truth about racial discrimination in the United States, where merely entering a store is enough to draw suspicions. The experiences are not new, but the rise of cellphone video has helped highlight recent cases, including the arrest of two black men last month at a Starbucks in Philadelphia. The episodes can also quickly morph into disastrous situations for companies, spurred by bad employees in one store whose actions are caught on video and risk blemishing an entire organization’s reputation. Executives at Nordstrom heard about the encounter later on Thursday. The next day, the company’s president, Geevy Thomas, called and apologized to Mr. Lee, a freshman at Alabama A&M University, and the other men, Dirone Taylor and Eric Rogers, both seniors at De Smet Jesuit High School, a private school in St. Louis County. “Recently there was a situation in one of our Rack stores that resulted in our employees calling the police,” a Nordstrom Rack spokeswoman said in a statement on Tuesday night. “We have guidelines that direct our employees to only call the police in emergency situations. Unfortunately, those guidelines weren’t followed.” “We do not tolerate discrimination of any kind,” the statement continued. The company is investigating the actions of its employees during the episode. The men could not be reached for comment on Tuesday. Mr. Thomas and other Nordstrom officials flew to St. Louis on Monday and met with store employees on Tuesday morning to discuss what happened. Later on Tuesday, Mr. Thomas met with the men and their families. “I appreciate the opportunity to listen to their concerns and offer our sincere apologies on behalf of Nordstrom,” Mr. Thomas said in a statement after the meeting. “I also want to thank the young men for their poise in dealing with local law enforcement and the police themselves for handling the situation professionally.” Adolphus M. Pruitt II, the president of the St. Louis chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. who met with the friends after the episode, said that both the police and the men handled the situation perfectly. Inside the store, as the two employees were following them, the friends debated leaving but decided they would buy some items to show that the employees had been wrong, that they were not stealing and that they had money to spend, he said. When the police arrived, the men cooperated with the officers, showed them their receipts and let them look inside their shopping bags and car, he said. The officers stressed that they were called out only because an employee had called 911. The police realized they were not thieves and let them go. “They allowed them to tell their side of the story, and the police told their side of the story,” Mr. Pruitt said on Tuesday. “In today’s day in time, it is remarkable. If we can get that to repeat itself as much as possible, boy, it would make my job easier.” While Mr. Pruitt said he was disappointed by the employees at the store, he said he was encouraged by the company’s response. “It does demonstrate that they are reacting in the right way,” he said, comparing its response to that of Starbucks after the arrest in Philadelphia. But he added that the recent cases underscored the need for employees to receive racial-bias training, which Starbucks will conduct on one day later this month for workers in more than 8,000 stores in the United States. Nordstrom has been reviewing its employee policies and considering changes to training at both its department stores and Nordstrom Rack, its discount shops. “Black children — black teenagers and black males, especially — are looked at this way at retail stores all across the country,” Mr. Pruitt said. “What are they going to do that goes beyond employees at one store?” Bryant Marks, a social psychologist at Morehouse College and a founder of the National Training Institute on Race and Equity, said that company executives had quickly understood that they must react swiftly to these cases. “Corporate leadership will continue to have a rapid response to these incidences as to not appear to be tone deaf regarding race and bias in America,” Mr. Marks, who trains groups on implicit bias, said in an email. “This is somewhat of a wake-up call for large corporations. I say somewhat because the vast majority of them have diversity officers or units already in place, but in my experience, I find those units to be underfunded and their work to be low priority.” Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS