Supported by Tech Tip You can add downloaded illustrations, graphics and photos to files created in Microsoft Word, Pages or other word-processing apps on Apple’s tablet. By J. D. Biersdorfer Q. How do I add clip art to documents created on the iPad? A. If your chosen word-processing app does not come with its own image library, one alternative is to point your iPad’s web browser to one of the many royalty-free clip art sites like Open Clip Art or Classroom Clip Art. Many such sites display preview versions of each file, and when you find an image you want to use, look for a button to save it. Some sites offer a selection of sizes and formats, so make sure you download images in an iPad-friendly file type like .JPG. On some sites, you can press and hold the picture on the screen until the Save Image command appears. In the Safari browser, the tool bar’s Share menu also has a Save Image option. By default, the downloaded image files land in the Camera Roll album in the Photos app. In many popular word-processing programs for the iPad — including the mobile version of Microsoft Word, Apple’s own Pages software and the Notes app included with iOS, you can insert images from the Camera Roll. Just look for an Insert menu or a photo icon in the app’s tool bar. Tap the icon, select the downloaded art file from the Camera Roll and add the image to your document. Although somewhat basic, both Word and Pages include a library of shapes and other graphic elements you can insert into documents. To see what is available in Word, go to the Insert tab and tap Shapes to see the collection. In Pages, tap the plus (+) icon on the top-right side of the tool bar, select the Shapes tab (third from the left) and tap through the categories to see if any of the graphics fit your needs. Personal Tech invites questions about computer-based technology to techtip@nytimes.com. This column will answer questions of general interest, but letters cannot be answered individually. J.D. Biersdorfer has been answering technology questions — in print, on the web, in audio and in video — since 1998. She also writes the Sunday Book Review’s “Applied Reading” column on ebooks and literary apps, among other things.@jdbiersdorfer Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS