With Andrew Ross Sorkin MAY 8, 2018  Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: • Will Trump’s moves on Iran and trade push markets over the edge? • What’s next for business after Eric Schneiderman? • D.E. Shaw grapples with an ousted executive who’s fighting back. • What Rupert Murdoch will weigh if Comcast makes another bid for Fox assets. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. President Trump’s antagonistic foreign policies have yet to cause serious losses in the stock market. But investors’ stoicism could face greater tests in the coming weeks. They have to contend with the repercussions of Mr. Trump’s decision on Tuesday to withdraw from the nuclear deal with Iran and the increasing likelihood of a trade war with China and the European Union. And all this is happening at a time when a boom in corporate earnings, the chief driver of the stock market, appears to be cooling. Up until January, investors were willing to pay high valuations for stocks because they expected corporate earnings to accelerate this year. But the best may already be behind us. Lori Calvasina, head of United States equity strategy at RBC Capital Markets, on Monday wrote that analysts now believe that earnings growth for this year likely peaked in the first quarter (at 23 percent over last year’s first quarter.) After such peaks, the stock market tends to remain weak for a while, she added. Investors likely won’t have a big new jump in profits to look forward to. Earnings are expected to grow 10 percent next year, according to estimates compiled by Standard & Poor’s. Without sustained support from corporate earnings, investors may be more willing to sell stocks in response to geopolitical events. And in the coming weeks, there will be plenty of potential trade war triggers. The Trump administration could decide to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum from a number of countries, including those in the European Union, when exemptions expire at the end of this month. Proposed tariffs on $50 billion of goods from China could also be imposed this month, and the White House could release details on a second batch of tariffs on $100 billion of Chinese products. Since neither the European Union nor China looks close to caving to Mr. Trump’s threats, global trade tensions look set to escalate and a full-blown trade war is possible. Investors may continue to hang tight, of course. The stock market is flat for the year, not a bad performance for a period in which the underpinnings of the international economic order are under assault. And there is another possible outcome – Mr. Trump may temper some of his initiatives. Stocks are up 25 percent since he was elected in November 2016, a move that has contributed $4 trillion of financial gains to the balance sheets of United States households. He can assert that his policies – tax cuts and deregulation, in particular — helped bring about such increases. Mr. Trump’s approval rating has risen in recent weeks, in part because of his handling of the economy. But that support will most likely convince him that he is on the right track – and he will press on with his hard-edged international policies. But more than at any time in his presidency, he should not expect the stock market to tag along. — Peter Eavis Disney reported its strongest quarterly results in two years. It beat Wall Street expectations for profit and revenue growth. But even that strong performance was shadowed by analyst concerns over maneuvering by Comcast to upend Disney’s pending acquisition of 21st Century Fox assets. Robert Iger, Disney’s chief executive, never mentioned Comcast and presented the Fox deal as a fait accompli. “We are confident that the assets that we are in the process of acquiring easily fit within our new structure once the deal is approved.” Brooks Barnes of the NYT reports: Mr. Iger’s confidence may stem from Wall Street’s reaction to Comcast’s jockeying. Its meetings with bankers, first reported by Reuters on Monday, prompted a 5.6 percent drop in Comcast shares. The stock has fallen 11 percent since late April, when speculation about a possible hostile bid by Comcast first began to swirl. Many analysts have recoiled at such a bid, which could leave Comcast with more than $170 billion in debt — a sum that would make it one of the largest corporate debtholders in American history. “We do not believe Comcast needs another media asset,” Gregory Williams, a Cowen and Company analyst, wrote in a research note. As New York state’s top law enforcement official, Eric Schneiderman took on both President Trump and Harvey Weinstein. His resignation, hours after The New Yorker published allegations of physical abuse by four women, was a stunning fall for a public official who prominently allied himself with women’s rights advocates. More from Matt Stevens of the NYT: Recently, he pushed himself to the forefront of the #MeToo movement, announcing a lawsuit against the company once run by the former filmmaker Harvey Weinstein, who was accused of decades of sexual misconduct. “We have never seen anything as despicable as what we’ve seen right here,” Mr. Schneiderman said at the time. Mr. Schneiderman has denied the women’s allegations. Our big question: Mr. Schneiderman had also become a sharp critic of business and Wall Street practices, going after mortgage lenders and sellers of fake followers on social media. Will his replacement be as tough? Elsewhere in misconduct allegations: The New Yorker profiles Lauren Bonner, the Point72 executive suing over sexual discrimination. The NYT’s Mark Landler reports: “President Trump told President Emmanuel Macron of France on Tuesday morning that he plans to announce the withdrawal of the United States from the Iran nuclear deal, according to a person briefed on the conversation.” “The United States is preparing to reinstate all sanctions it had waived as part of the nuclear accord — and impose additional economic penalties as well, the person said.” In a surprise move on Tuesday, Valeant Pharmaceuticals said that it planned to change its corporate name to Bausch Health Companies, taking on the name of one of its many acquisitions, Bausch & Lomb. Why would the company possible do this? We can think of a few reasons. Here’s what Joe Papa, the company’s C.E.O., said: “The Bausch name embodies the rich history of innovation, fortitude and dedication to patient health dating back to when J.J. Bausch opened his first optical goods shop more than 165 years ago. These qualities form the foundation of who we are today as we continue to build an innovative company striving to improve the health of patients globally.”  — Michael de la Merced Shire’s board formally accepted Takeda Pharmaceuticals of Japan takeover bid. So where does the deal stack up among big acquisitions? Here’s a breakdown courtesy of Dealogic: • It is the biggest deal announced this year, beating Cigna’s $55 billion acquisition of Express Scripts. • It is not just the largest overseas acquisition by a Japanese company, but the biggest by a Japanese company. The $63 billion price tag just barely tops the $62.88 billion Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group paid for UFJ Holdings in 2005. • The deal is the sixth largest pharmaceutical deal on record. Here are the biggest: Pfizer’s $110 billion purchase of Warner-Lambert, Glaxo Wellcome’s $77 billion deal for SmithKline Beecham, Actavis’s $72.7 billion acquisition of Allergan, Pfizer’s $68 billion deal for Wyeth, and Sanofi’s $66 billion purchase of Aventis. The former acting attorney general has returned to King & Spalding as a partner in its special matters team and will head up in the firm’s investigations group, according to a news release. Ms. Yates began her career at King & Spalding before spending 27 years at the Justice Department. She served as deputy attorney general under President Barack Obama. The Trump administration asked her to stay on as acting attorney general until Jeff Sessions was confirmed to be attorney general. Then 10-days after President Trump’s inauguration, he removed Ms. Yates as the nation’s top law enforcement officer after she refused to defend his executive order closing the nation’s borders to refugees and people from predominantly Muslim countries. Ms. Yates worked at King & Spalding as a civil litigation associate from 1986 to 1989. D.E. Shaw said yesterday that it had fired Daniel Michalow, a longtime executive at the hedge fund, for what it said were “gross violations of our standards and values.” Citing unnamed sources, Business Insider andBloomberg reported that he faced accusations of mistreating women. Mr. Michalow responded in a letter to David Shaw, D.E. Shaw’s founder, saying the firm had told him he hadn’t been accused of sexual misconduct. He admitted “an abrasive and intolerant management style,” but denied sexually mistreating anyone. From what Mr. Michalow tweeted was “the letter D.E. Shaw spent all day trying to make sure you couldn’t read”: The firm’s bullying and threats against me over the last week, however, have revealed that the firm is so concerned with creating the appearance of supporting women that it is willing to cast false aspersions on me (and perpetuate false aspersions cast by others) and make me a scapegoat with a proverbial hanging in the town square. If Comcast goes through with a higher bid for the 21st Century Fox assets that Disney has agreed to buy for $52.4 billion, as Reuters and the WSJ report, would Rupert Murdoch be swayed? Two reasons he might not be: • Mr. Murdoch already spurned a Comcast offer 16 percent higher than what Disney’s, saying regulators were more likely to block it. (Comcast would move again only if AT&T gets its Time Warner deal.) Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • He prefers receiving stock, as he would from Disney, because that’s a tax-free transaction. The context: Comcast is also making life difficult for Mr. Murdoch and Disney by challenging Fox’s bid for full ownership of Sky, the British satellite broadcaster. • President Trump’s expected withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal is likely raise oil prices, already at $70 a barrel. • Tokyo is becoming closer politically to Beijing, partly because it fears a U.S.-China trade war. (Axios) • Mr. Trump is asking Congress to withdraw $15 billion in agreed spending, primarily from the Children’s Health Insurance Program and the Affordable Care Act. (WaPo) • Qatar has reportedly expressed interest in investing in Newsmax, a publisher that supports Mr. Trump. (Politico) • Mick Mulvaney has made his biggest mark in Washington not in the federal budget but at the C.F.P.B. (NYT) • Don Blankenship, the former Massey Energy C.E.O. seeking a Senate seat in West Virginia, shrugged off Mr. Trump’s opposition to him ahead of a primary today. (Politico) He’s had a cartoon mini-series made from his book “Principles.” Here’s what the billionaire Bridgewater founder told friends in a note: “A number of people also requested that I distill it down to its essential concepts in a 30-minute animation, like I did with my Economic Principles in How the Economic Machine Works. So I’ve done that in an 8 episode ultra mini-series adventure called ‘Principles for Success,’ which I’m releasing today” • Shire’s board formally accepted a $62 billion takeover bid by Takeda Pharmaceuticals of Japan, one of the biggest ever in the drug industry. (FT) • Walmart’s deal to buy control of Flipkart of India for nearly $15 billion could be announced as soon as this week. (WSJ) • Carl Icahn and Darwin Deason said that they would consider any bid for Xerox worth at least $40 a share, as they continued to try and oust the company’s C.E.O., Jeff Jacobson. Separately, Mr. Icahn appears to have scaled back his A.I.G. investment. • Elliott Management offered to buy Athenahealth for $6.5 billion. Citigroup’s shares rose in postmarket trading after the WSJ reported that ValueAct has a $1.2 billion stake in it. • Within T-Mobile and Sprint, their $26.5 billion deal was code-named “Lakes,” with T-Mobile being “Tahoe” and Sprint “Salt.” (Bloomberg) • The European payments start-up iZettle plans to go public. (iZettle) The business world has chortled over an unlikely spat: Warren Buffett and Elon Musk trading barbs over the candy industry and business moats. But there’s a legitimate concern in there, Andrew writes in his latest column: Moats still exist, and it remains hard for upstarts to break into banking, tech or, yes, automobiles. More from Andrew: Whether they have been dug by a company’s experienced hand, the good will of its customers or the heavy machinery of governmental regulation, moats remain a formidable form of protection, even from the most willing of raiders. Critics’ corner: Investors are already choosing sides in the fight, John Foley of Breakingviews writes. More on Mr. Musk: Tesla’s 10-Q raises more questions he might find “boring.” A rare glimpse inside Tesla’s Model 3 factory. More on Mr. Buffett: Why Berkshire shareholders love going to “the meeting.” • The Uber self-driving car involved in a fatal accident in March reportedly detected the pedestrian it hit, and decided she was a false positive. Egyptian lawmakers want ride-hailing companies to turn over passenger data if asked. Drive.ai, an autonomous cab service, plans to open in Dallas. • The parent company of the N.Y.S.E. has been working on an online Bitcoin trading platform. Warren Buffett and Bill Gates still aren’t into cryptocurrencies. Researchers at the San Francisco Fed blamed Bitcoin’s price drop on futures trading. • Microsoft wants to position itself as the tech industry’s conscience. (NYT) • Piazza Technologies, computer science students’ favorite social network, wants to be Silicon Valley’s new recruiting service. (Bloomberg) • Snap has hired Tim Stone, a vice president of finance at Amazon, as its C.F.O. (Recode) • Uber has hired Christopher Hart, the former head of the National Transportation Safety Board, as an adviser. (Bloomberg) • Abernathy MacGregor, the P.R. firm, named Carina Davidson as its president. (Abernathy MacGregor) • Unions have rejected a pay offer at Air France-KLM, testing Emmanuel Macron’s labor policies. (NYT) • California now has the world’s fifth largest economy. (NYT) • Ant Financial’s sprawling business interests could increase its exposure to new regulations in China. (Bloomberg) • Bank of America is preparing a critical loan for Remington Outdoor just weeks after it said it would stop financing “military-style” firearms for civilians. (Reuters) • Deliveroo will spend $13 million on free medical insurance for 35,000 food delivery drivers worldwide, but stopped short of further benefits to avoid the risk of having to treat them as employees. (CNBC) • Private placements are a fast-growing type of investment, but frequently involve brokers with red flags in their records. (WSJ) • Samsung Securities said it intended to file a criminal lawsuit against employees who sold shares the company mistakenly issued during a “fat finger” incident last month. (WSJ) • Britain’s oldest bank has made a 32-year-old member of the controlling family a partner, hoping for what it called “millennial thinking.” (FT) We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »