Supported by Money hasn’t made Stephen Schwarzman universally beloved. Who cares? By Jacob Bernstein Last May, a familiar routine took place on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  Katy Perry ascended the red carpet at the annual Costume Institute gala looking like the bride of Frankenstein in her red John Galliano dress and veil. Jennifer Lopez wafted by in sky blue Valentino, flanked by her favorite Yankee of all time and the founder of the design house responsible for making her gown.  By contrast, the entrance of the private equity guru Stephen A. Schwarzman and his wife, Christine, was inconspicuous.  He wore a simple black tuxedo. She had on a shimmering gray Versace gown. Nevertheless, journalists called out their names. Cameras continued to flash. And obnoxious questions followed about which cost more, the party the couple was waltzing into or the one they’d recently held in Palm Beach, Fla., in honor of Mr. Schwarzman’s 70th birthday.  “I think this one,” Mr. Schwarzman said, although it was hard not to wonder if this guess was a measure of reality or wishful thinking. Certainly, the Met had no live camels in the entryway to the party space. Nor did Gwen Stefani serenade Anna Wintour to the reported tune of $500,000.  But all that’s neither here nor there.  Mr. Schwarzman’s birthday bash with camels and Ms. Stefani may have been cheaper than last year’s Costume Institute gala, but it is thanks to his fortune ($12.3 billion, according to Forbes) that there’s another Costume Institute gala this year.  He and his wife helped underwrite the exhibition “Heavenly Bodies: Fashion and the Catholic Imagination,” handing over a check that two sources close to the museum said was in the ballpark of $5 million.  “Much of the cultural vitality of New York has long been due to the benevolence of such great Americans as Brooke Astor and David Rockefeller,” Ms. Wintour said in a statement last week. “At the Met, we’ve been extraordinarily lucky to partner with Stephen and Christine Schwarzman, who, like the philanthropists who’ve gone before them, have always supported everything from arts and culture to education to Catholic charities. It’s their generosity — along with that of my friend Donatella Versace — that has made this brilliant and groundbreaking exhibition possible. When you work with the likes of Stephen and Christine, everyone benefits.” So Mr. Schwarzman may be a flash point for income inequality, a man with more money than respect, but that seldom stops him from having the last laugh, or getting the multi-million-dollar tax write-off. (All the people involved declined interviews.)  There are several reasons Mr. Schwarzman inspires enmity.  First: New York City has more residents worth at least $30 million than any metropolis on planet Earth, but it still regards itself as a progressive enclave. An adviser to President Trump who once compared Obama-era tax hikes on corporations to Hitler invading Poland is bound to have some enemies. (Mr. Schwarzman apologized, but still.)  Second: Mr. Schwarzman is famously brash, a 5-foot-6-inch bundle of testosterone who in 2008 described his business philosophy by saying, “I want war — not a series of skirmishes.” This has extended not only to his rivals at competing firms, but also at times to those closest to him.  His mentor at Lehman Brothers, where Mr. Schwarzman worked in the earlier part of his career, was Peter G. Peterson, a much revered society and business world figure. After Mr. Peterson lost control of Lehman in 1984 and left the company, Mr. Schwarzman was behind the putsch that drove their enemies from power.  Together, Mr. Peterson and Mr. Schwarzman started the Blackstone Group, a private equity firm that grew into a financial colossus that dwarfed competitors like Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Carlyle Group.  In 2007, the Blackstone Group went public, and Mr. Schwarzman earned hundreds of millions of dollars through the I.P.O. But the subsequent negotiations around the retirement package of his mentor Mr. Peterson, then 81, were brutal. People who knew them both were shocked.   Mr. Peterson died in March. At the memorial, numerous attendees took note that Mr. Peterson’s most famous protégé was not selected as a speaker. Mr. Schwarzman’s charitable contributions have ignited controversy. This is partly because the gifts often come with conditions.  In 2015, Yale University announced that Mr. Schwarzman was donating $150 million to the school for the construction of a student hub located smack in the middle of its campus. It is scheduled to open in 2020 and will be called the Schwarzman Center. “I’m more than comfortable with that,” said Peter Salovey, the school’s president. “It demonstrates our thankfulness to Steve.”  So whose idea was it to name the building in the donor’s honor?  “I can’t answer questions about the contractual negotiation,” Mr. Salovey said in a phone interview that was supervised by a public relations person from Mr. Schwarzman’s team. “It’s a matter of confidentiality.” Anyway, Mr. Salovey pointed out, “there are hundreds of spaces on our campus named for donors.”  As well as numerous other prominent nonprofits. The Fifth Avenue headquarters of the New York Public Library is now the Stephen A. Schwarzman building, thanks to a contribution of $100 million in 2008. And the education center at the National Library of Israel’s new landmark building in Jerusalem is being named for Mr. Schwarzman, after a contribution earlier this year for $10 million. Annette de la Renta, a board member at the Met and the New York Public Library, doesn’t get why all this inspires such fuss, such sanctimony.  “People should just be grateful,” she said.  Yet they’re not always.  Partly this is because there remains a select group of people (among them, Mrs. de la Renta) who remember that Brooke Astor rescued the New York Public Library from financial ruin in the early ’80s without making such demands. Additionally, the recent focus on capital improvements at New York’s most storied nonprofits is occurring at a time when their boards are chock-full of real estate barons and finance wizards who have voted to reduce services, lay off employees and offload assets.  In 2014, the Metropolitan Museum of Art cut the ribbon on a four-block-long plaza named after Mr. Schwarzman’s downstairs neighbor David Koch, who paid $65 million for the privilege. Shortly afterward, the Met’s leadership announced that the museum was eliminating the jobs of up to 100 people in administrative, conservationist and curatorial positions in an effort to address a ballooning $30 million deficit.  “All that money for a bunch of useless fountains,” said Michael M. Thomas, the best-selling author who preceded Mr. Schwarzman both as a student at Yale and as a partner at Lehman Brothers.  According to Mr. Thomas, Mr. Salovey is right to argue that Mr. Schwarzman is one of many people at Yale with a space named in his honor. But that reveals the extent of the problem with modern philanthropy, not its absence, he said.  “That’s why I’m not going to my 60th reunion,” he said. “Yale is Whoresville, U.S.A. You can quote me on that.” Earlier this year, Mr. Schwarzman gave $25 million to the high school he had attended in Abington, Pa. But plans to rename it after him were scrapped when people in the town nearly had a conniption.  To the delight of Mr. Thomas, the donation still went through. “It took a little high school in Pennsylvania to do what Yale would not,” he said, chuckling.  Jimmy Lee, a friend of Mr. Schwarzman’s, has joked that Mr. Schwarzman has given more money to the archdiocese than any Jew in New York. Partly, this is because his wife, Christine, is Catholic. Mr. Schwarzman met her sometime around 1994.  “I fixed them up,” said Debbie Bancroft, a party scene fixture and a contributor to Avenue Magazine. He had previously been married to Ellen Philips, the daughter of a wealthy Ohio industrialist, whom he met during his graduate work at Harvard Business School.  Christine, a corporate lawyer, had recently separated from Austin Hearst, the grandson of the media baron William Randolph Hearst. Mr. Schwarzman’s courtship did not take long. In November 1995, the couple married in Manhattan and gave a party to celebrate at the Frick Museum, where Mr. Schwarzman is a longtime board member.  Five years later, Mr. and Mrs. Schwarzman made their first real mark as a society couple by buying a 17,000-square-foot, three-floor penthouse apartment at 740 Park Avenue. That was its own kind of a leveraged buyout.  The apartment once belonged to John D. Rockefeller. Later it was owned by Saul Steinberg, who sold it to Mr. Schwarzman after Mr. Steinberg’s company, the Reliance Group, went into bankruptcy.  Off went Mr. Steinberg’s billiard tables. Down came the red vinyl walls, which really would not have been the way to showcase Mr. Schwarzman’s Monets and Cy Twomblys.  Soon, Mr. and Mrs. Schwarzman began dining tête-à-tête with Cardinal Edward Egan, the late archbishop of New York. Mr. Schwarzman happily gave financial advice for Cardinal Egan to take back to the archdiocese.  Mr. and Mrs. Schwarzman also became fixtures on the charity circuit.  “They’re peas in a pod,” said Ms. Bancroft, who often gets a Valentine’s Day card from Mr. Schwarzman thanking her for the introduction that has made him the happiest man in the world. “They’re energizer bunnies. They love dancing, and they love watching people.” In 2007, Mr. Schwarzman held his birthday party at the Park Avenue Armory. Knickerbockers guided guests to their tables, which were in a space designed to replicate the couple’s living room. Martin Short served as the M.C. and made jokes about guests like Mr. Trump. Rod Stewart and Patti LaBelle performed.   Mere months after Mr. Schwarzman spent $100 million to have his name plunked across the facade of the New York Public Library, Mr. Koch paid $100 million to have his name put on the facade of Lincoln Center.  Residents at 740 Park Avenue began to float the theory that the conservative billionaire on the fourth floor was trying to one-up the conservative billionaire on 15.  How does a man people are inclined to make fun of usually wind up with the upper hand? Well, having money helps a lot.  Just look at Mr. Schwarzman’s relationship with the president. Mr. Schwarzman didn’t endorse Mr. Trump during the campaign. Instead, he donated to Jeb Bush. (He even once compared Mr. Trump to P.T. Barnum, when speaking to CNN in 2015.)  But the Blackstone Group is an enormously powerful real estate investor. Between 2013 and 2017, it provided more than $400 million to the troubled real estate projects of Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Mr. Trump was unusually solicitous about Mr. Schwarzman during the campaign, and reportedly asked aides numerous times if there had been any luck getting him to pledge allegiance.  That did not happen until after Mr. Trump won the election, at which point Mr. Schwarzman agreed to come aboard his team of business advisers and began raising money for his re-election. When Mr. Schwarzman celebrated his 70th birthday in Florida in February 2017, Mr. Kushner and his wife, Ivanka Trump, were among the guests.  As was Donatella Versace. In 2014, the Blackstone Group bought a minority stake in her company for $287 million. So when Versace was approached to sponsor the Costume Institute gala, but didn’t have enough money, calling Mr. Schwarzman made sense.  In September 2017, Cardinal Egan’s successor at the archdiocese, Cardinal Timothy Dolan, received a visit from a couple of people representing the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Cardinal Dolan still can’t entirely remember who they were. “There was a guy named Andrew and this lady who edits a magazine,” Cardinal Dolan said in an interview. Still, it was clear to him she is a pretty big deal, an “admired” person, he said, because “all these people” in his office got bizarrely star-struck when she walked in. As Cardinal Dolan’s visitors explained it to him, the theme for the Costume Institute’s big exhibition for 2018 was to be “Heavenly Bodies,” a tribute to the Catholic imagination. Not all the publicity the church receives is positive, so it came as a relief to hear that the exhibit was being underwritten by his old friend Mr. Schwarzman. “That’s when I said, ‘Bingo,’” Cardinal Dolan recalled. Over the last few weeks, friends of the Schwarzmans have been slightly surprised that his check underwriting the exhibition didn’t translate into invitations for them. “I’m still holding out for the possibility they may get a cancellation from J.Lo,” Ms. Bancroft joked. People close to the museum and to Ms. Wintour have been a little surprised that requests made of the Schwarzmans occasionally get turned down. Ultimately, though, it’s a win-win.  The Costume Institute has the money it needed for the exhibition. Mr. and Mrs. Schwarzman are the second couple underwriting the exhibit and co-hosting the gala since 1997, when none other than Mr. Koch and his wife, Julia, had their names on the invitation. Mr. and Mrs. Schwarzman’s friends at the archdiocese are happy. Ms. Versace’s clothes are prominently featured in the galleries.  The investment cost less than 1 percent of his 2017 income.  Jacob Bernstein is a reporter for the Styles desk. In addition to writing profiles of fashion designers, artists and celebrities, he has focused much of his attention on L.G.B.T. issues, philanthropy and the world of furniture design.@bernsteinjacob Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS