With Andrew Ross Sorkin MAY 10, 2018  Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching: • A slowdown in lending could pose a threat to the economy. • Could oil prices return to $100 a barrel next year? • Walmart’s journey to its biggest deal. • How Michael Cohen made $2 million as a gatekeeper. • The latest fallout from Trump’s foreign policy. Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here. With tax cuts done and deregulation proceeding, some expect the United States economy to grow more quickly than it has in recent years. One problem: A huge driver of economic growth, lending to companies and individuals, does not point to such a bullish outcome. Borrowing allows companies and individuals to finance purchases that they might not otherwise be able to afford. When borrowing surges, new money circulates through the economy, creating demand that needs to be met with higher production. Lending has certainly not fallen off a cliff like it did during the Great Recession, but it is growing quite a bit slower than it has in recent years. If it doesn’t pick up, that could dampen growth some expect. In March, bank loans to companies (commercial and industrial loans, in the Federal Reserve’s statistics) rose 2.5 percent from a year ago. That is well below the 7 percent average monthly growth rate of the past three years. Real estate and consumer loans also grew below their three-year average rates. Companies also borrow by issuing bonds – and here, there is a fall off. So far this year, corporate bond issuance is down 14 percent from last year’s levels, according to data from Sifma, an industry group. Tough comparisons are in part to blame for the lackluster growth. This year’s borrowing is being compared with totals notched up during a surge in lending. And since that boom petered out in early 2017, growth rates in credit may soon look better. Also, right now, it may be a mistake to assume that credit growth must be strong for the economy to surge. Companies may just be in a period when they need fewer loans to fuel strong growth. The tax cuts passed late last year have provided firms with more of their own cash to spend on their investments and hiring. In the latest bank lending survey from the Fed, some banks said their corporate customers had less demand for loans. One reason borrowers gave: They were generating more funds internally from their operations. But something else may hinder a strong revival in borrowing. Companies may have taken on so much debt that they may not want to borrow much more, or their creditors may not be as willing to lend. Analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch on Wednesday noted that the “net leverage” of investment-grade corporations is now at its highest level since 2002. Debt, after subtracting cash holdings, is 1.82 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the companies, excluding financial firms and corporations in the energy, utilities and metals sectors. Some economists say sluggish credit growth could act as a drag on the economy. Paul Kasriel, an economist at the Legacy Private Trust Company, contends that the slowing growth of bank credit and another monetary measure could signal that demand in the economy will weaken in 2018. Of course, we may now just be in a lending lull that will soon give way to a rebound. But the longer credit growth remains subpar, the less likely a Trump boom becomes. - Peter Eavis Analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch argue that there is a risk of that happening. They cite collapsing production in Venezuela, continued production restraint by OPEC and Russia, and the rising tensions in the Middle East, which seem set to worsen in the wake of President Trump’s decision to walk away from Iran nuclear deal. The analysts raised their forecast for Brent, the global benchmark for oil, to $70 a barrel this year and to $75 a barrel next year and that there was a possibility of oil going to $100 a barrel. Why the risk of $100 a barrel? There could be a greater than expected drop in Iranian oil exports and OPEC and Russia could continue to curb production. The BofA analysts write: “If a new Iran deal is not reached in the next six months or OPEC/Russia extend production cuts into 2019, global oil markets would likely tighten further.” And United States shale likely will not make up for the falloff in production Brent last saw $100 a barrel in September 2014. The hedge fund manager Dan Loeb thinks so. On the earnings call for his Third Point Reinsurance, Mr. Loeb said: Over the past two years, markets were boosted by positive surprises in growth and benign inflation, but during the first quarter, uncertainty returned in each of these areas. Investors have become increasingly concerned about multiples, particularly since after many years of low rates, there’s finally an alternative to equities in the form of relatively riskless 2-year money. We’ve also seen manufacturing indices start to decline from elevated levels. As the markets today grapple with multiples and which inning of the late cycle we’re in, we’re watching closely to see if a recession, which we don’t think is close, might be getting closer. Historically low yields have push investors into increasingly risky assets since the financial crisis and provided crucial support for the stocks. Now that two-year Treasuries yield is more than 2.50 percent, that critical pillar of the nine-year bull market has been weakened somewhat. Mr. Loeb said he expects the S.&P. 500 to continue to grow because of fiscal stimulus. But he added that it should be more range bound. He also said he is seeing more opportunities to bet on the decline of specific companies’ stocks. The retail giant began the journey to its biggest-ever takeover nearly two years ago, by embarking on a big move into e-commerce and emerging markets like India. But the deal had some twists, from an aborted 2016 approach by Walmart to an aggressive challenge for Flipkart by Amazon. From Michael’s account: By last November, Walmart was ready to discuss a deal. Initially, Walmart was focused on acquiring a minority stake in Flipkart, these people said. But over time, both sides came to realize that Flipkart could better realize its ambitions if Walmart owned a majority stake. From a business perspective, Flipkart would provide a base for e-commerce dominance in India, while Walmart could give a crucial boost in the grocery delivery business. Michael also noted how big some Flipkart investors’ paydays will be. Accel will get seven times its original investment, Tiger Global four times. And SoftBank, which only invested nine months ago and whose founder spilled the beans on the deal, is looking at a 60 percent return. Down the road: Flipkart and its remaining investors still hope the company will go public someday. Walmart is on board. Critics’ corner: Walmart’s shares fell 3 percent after the deal was announced, but it’s still the company’s best hope of breaking into India, according to Sarah Halzack of Bloomberg Opinion, while Una Galani of Breakingviews sees it as a test of Walmart’s ability to compete with Amazon abroad. He didn’t join the White House. But President Trump’s fixer brought in huge payouts from Squire Patton Boggs, AT&T, Novartis and others with the prospect of access to power. Among the latest revelations: • AT&T told employees that it paid $600,000 for antitrust insight into antitrust matters as it sought backing for its $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner. • Novartis was worried about Mr. Trump moving against the Affordable Care Act and promising to cut drug prices. • Mr. Cohen helped Squire Patton Boggs land a client: U.S. Immigration Fund, which connects American businesses with foreign investors and which the WSJ says has ties to Kushner Companies. He sought those clients out, according to Michael Avenatti, Stormy Daniels’s lawyer. Some White House critics, like the Democratic senator Brian Schatz, snarked about it all: Mr. Cohen’s self-assessment in 2017, according to the WaPo: “I’m crushing it.” Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The WSJ reports that Apple and Goldman are teaming up to launch a new joint credit card. Here are the details from the WSJ: • It will carry the Apple Pay brand. • It will replace rewards-card partnership with Barclays. • It could be issued next year. Context The move comes as Apple has become more focused on bolstering revenue from its services business. Apple Pay is a key part of that strategy but adoption has fallen short of expectations since it was started four years ago, The WSJ reports. For Goldman’s part, the Wall Street firm has pushed increasingly into consumer banking to offset slowing revenue from trading and investment banking. The Apple Pay card will be the first credit card issued by Goldman. The online brokerage start-up raised $363 million that valued the company at $5.6 billion. DST Global, the investment group of the Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, led the new funding round. Sequoia Capital, Google’s venture capital fund Capital G, and Iconiq also participated. Robinhood’s app allows commission trading of American stocks and ETFs. The company now has 4 million brokerage accounts. E* Trade, one Robinhood’s main competitors, had 3.7 million brokerage accounts at the end of the first quarter. In Mexico: President Trump’s antagonism has lifted Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a Trumpian presidential candidate who unnerves corporate leaders, according to Bloomberg Businessweek’s latest cover story. In Iran: Oil prices changed little after Mr. Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal, but businesses are watching how tightly his administration enforces renewed sanctions. Boeing, which stands to lose a $20 billion deal, has played down the impact. In China: Sanctions have put ZTE, once one of the country’s most successful tech companies, at death’s door. One analyst cautioned: “In the long run, strategically, this might be worse for the U.S. than the current situation.” Meanwhile, Beijing is reportedly looking for potential U.S. imports to avoid a trade war. • Democratic senators asked Carl Icahn and Scott Pruitt to explain how the Icahn-owned CVR Energy won exemption from a biofuels law. (Reuters) • Automakers who wanted looser regulations fear the Trump administration may go too far. (NYT) • Mick Mulvaney has shifted the C.F.P.B.’s student loan unit into its consumer information division, potentially sidetracking an investigation into the lender Navient, and irritated former colleagues in Congress by asking them to reduce their expenses. • President Trump wants pharmaceutical companies to charge more abroad to cut prices in the U.S. The plan, like other administration policies on the drug industry, has strong critics. Eric Schneiderman went after big banks for mortgage abuses and fought the Trump administration on environmental rules. Whoever replaces him must decide whether to follow in his litigious footsteps. His interim replacement, Barbara Underwood, said she plans to continue that work, though less aggressively. The first test may an investigation into whether Exxon Mobil misled shareholders about climate change. • Jay Alix, a prominent restructuring specialist, sued McKinsey & Company, accusing it of misleading bankruptcy courts about conflicts of interest. (NYT) • NBCUniversal’s legal team — with unusually little help from outside lawyers — cleared NBC News executives of wrongdoing in their handling of Matt Lauer. (NYT) • Royal Bank of Scotland agreed to pay $4.9 billion to settle with the Justice Department over the sale of toxic mortgage-backed securities in the lead-up to the global financial crisis. (WSJ) • Wells Fargo acknowledged pocketing fee rebates that it should have passed on to a public pension fund in Tennessee. (WSJ) • Wu Xiaohui, who founded Anbang of China, was sentenced to 18 years in prison for fraud. (NYT) For weeks, the gun maker had urged shareholders to reject a proposal by nuns demanding more transparency on plans for safer firearms. But investors sided with the nuns, ordering Sturm Ruger to prepare a report on how it tracks violence tied to its products and information on its research into so-called smart guns. Sturm Ruger’s C.E.O., Christopher Kilroy, played down the significance of the move, saying: “That’s it, a report.” And a former N.R.A. executive, Sandra Froman, won re-election to the board. Though 21st Century Fox may increasingly regard Sinclair Broadcasting as a rival, the transaction that they announced yesterday — where Fox will buy seven stations from Sinclair and Tribune for $910 million — makes sense. Fox has wanted to own more of its local affiliates, while Sinclair needs to satisfy antitrust regulators. Meanwhile, Fox’s quarterly earnings announcement yesterday shows why Disney and Comcast are hungrily eyeing its assets, says Tara Lachapelle of Bloomberg Opinion. Elsewhere in deals: Sears shareholders loved the its agreement to install tires for Amazon customers. The U.S.-based Stealth BioTherapeutics reportedly plans to go public in Hong Kong. The Asmodee Group, the game company behind DealBook favorite Settlers of Catan, is reportedly considering selling itself for more than $1.7 billion. How Goldman Sachs got stuck on a bad Burberry trade. SoftBank’s Vision Fund has found more investors. • Qatar’s sports network is being bootlegged on a remarkable scale, probably as part of a Saudi-led blockade. (NYT) • FIFA met with seven leading soccer teams to pitch an expanded Club World Cup. (NYT) • California became the first state to require all new homes to have solar power. (NYT) • A new bill in Germany could allow collective lawsuits for the first time. (WSJ) • Voice systems like Siri and Alexa will obey orders inaudible to humans, researchers have shown. (NYT) • Meet Japan’s Bitcoin king, who has been scooping up financiers from his old employer, Goldman Sachs; and Silvergate Bank of San Diego, a community lender that has become a go-to for the cryptocurrency industry. • Ev Williams, of Blogger, Twitter and now Medium fame, has a manifesto for fixing the internet. (NYT) Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook. We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page »